So some standards and definitions
before we dive into screen readers.
Accessibility isn't just a feeling,
there are standards and
guidelines that we can benefit from.
And they're really a starting point, but
they are very important in
the world of accessibility.
Starting with WCAG, or
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
They are a standard set of criteria for
measuring accessibility.
Some of these rules can be automated,
which we'll see today, but
a lot of them require human review.
So, the current version of WCAG is 2.2,
there is a looming version 3.0
out there that aims to kind of
revolutionize how WCAG is structured,
how it works.
It is very like far out on
the horizon I would say.
There isn't a lot of consensus among
people that it's like anywhere near ready.
So focus on 2.2.
[LAUGH] And
I think the most important aspect of
Devas is the color contrast part.
I think people are very excited about a
new algorithm for color contrast testing,
but we're still on 2.2, so
that's the standard you should aim for.
And it's backwards compatible,
for the most part.
One really cool thing about WCAG is that
it's developed in the open on GitHub.
So you can go and read how people
are making decisions about it.
What research has gone into it,
you could go and
ask a question if you didn't
understand something or
I mean it just to have it developed
in the open is really incredible.
And so
that's a resource that I reference quite
often when I'm trying to
understand a certain criteria.
So another acronym, this one we will
cover much more fully today, is ARIA.
It stands for
Accessible Rich Internet Applications.
And this is a specification that includes
a standard set of roles, states,
and properties that PLUM accessibility
information through your web pages.
So these are actual attributes that
you would put into your markup.
It's a bit more of an advanced tool,
I would say.
So it's not the first thing you
should reach for, but there
are some concepts that do apply to base
HTML that we will definitely get into.
[LAUGH] The current
version of ARIA is 1.2 and
it is also developed
in the open on GitHub.
So this one I would definitely say I have
opened in a tab quite often to go and
read up on what's going on
with this one attribute?
You might even be able to
learn about browser support or
assistive technology support for
a certain thing.
Yeah, it's really,
really cool to be on GitHub.
There are other similar documents from
the W3C who puts out ARIA and WCAG.
There's one called ARIA and HTML and
another one called using
ARIA that are pretty great.
These are more informational
documents where
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
is what we call normative.
That means that it's clear requirements.
Whereas some things that are non-normative
mean that they're informational
like tutorials, that's not something that
you would point to in a court setting.
Whereas WCAG which is codified
into a lot of laws, is normative.
It is something that is legally required
when you're in that type of environment.
So these terms and these standards,
when I got into accessibility,
they were all Greek to me.
I just didn't understand what
the point was, what these were so and
I just want to expose you to them if
they're new, and just let them kind
of soak in, but it's not stuff you
necessarily need to understand right now.
Just know that these things exist.
You can always reference this
information later as well.
We do have one more bullet point here.
It's a bit of a just a fun tip
is that A11Y is a numeronym.
It is a word where you take the letters in
the middle and replace them with numbers.
So A11Y,
there are 11 letters between A and Y.
There's another numeronym,
internationalization, or
IATN there's a number of those ironically,
people in accessibility and
outside of it don't think that
it's a very accessible term.
But it's something that
we use nonetheless,
especially in Twitter historically.
I mean, if you have to type it a lot and
you're short on characters,
it's pretty easy to reach for.
I mostly mention it just so that you know
what it is, you know what it stands for.
You don't have to use it.
Yeah, kind of some fun
accessibility trivia.